THE NINETY
The sense of anxiety in my mind was immense as I walked up the stairs. It wasn’t exactly magnificent as I thought, but what I had in mind was to capture each and every moment and also relish them. 
‘Whoa!’ was the first word that came up in my mind when I had finished climbing the stairs. I found a place and sat down hoping that the next few hours , one and a half hours to be exact, would be the most exciting in my life and I would talk about it forever. The people started to appear slowly, everyone was searching for their seats. In minutes, the whole place was filled and I could hear chanting and singing very loudly in my ears. It certainly was a moment worth relishing. There was a girl in red sitting next to me on my left. I hated being around girls in these kind of places. There were a couple of young lads right in front of me, from the look of things it seemed that they were brothers and were arguing about something. The sound was huge and kind of exasperating really; I took a huge and deep breath and like people say ‘pinched myself’ because it seemed too good to be true, for me specially.
I started wondering if this day would ever come in my life. Just as I was doing so, ‘Hey buddy! This is going to be a classic one’, the man on my right said to me. ‘Yeah! Lets hope so’, I replied with a smile. Moments later, the ‘stars’ arrived through the tunnel. I had seen them a lot of times, but not within this short distance. The only difference was that they looked a little less shiny this time around, maybe because they were right in front of my eyes instead of a square box called T.V. 
They appeared right through the tunnel with kids holding their hands. I actually envied those kids; what pleasure it must have been for them, I was lost in my thoughts. The two main men were standing in the middle, with those shiny armbands on. The feeling to represent your country must be just amazing.
The whole stadium was silent for a moment, it was quite a rare occasion when the whole stadium is silent just before the referee was about to blow his whistle. The sound of the whistle sounded a lot louder than it used to on previous occasions and most people watching on TV would not even notice it. 
The two men standing in the middle, one with the ball underneath his feet were about to begin the game. “There must be a lot going through their mind.” I said to myself. What I had forgotten was they were also men after all and it’s in a man’s nature to make mistakes and to defend them.
OH! The ball was already on the right flank with the winger on the right wearing the number fourteen jersey as I was lost in my thoughts. He slowly began to move forward from the right onto the middle, beating one of the opposition in a very easy manner. He was just outside the penalty area as he thought about having a shot, at least that was what I think he wanted to do, just as he was dispossessed by the man in yellow who looked ferocious, large by nature, having a rough face and body structure of a bulldozer. The face of 14 looked gloomy; the expression was as if he had lost a dear one and not the ball. Yet, he restored his position on the right flank instead of getting the ball back. The “bulldozer” kept running around beating players as if they weren’t there and I don’t think anyone of those eleven had the ability, both physically and mentally to tackle him”. 0:49, the clock read as almost all the people inside the stadium had taken their seats.
Each man as I saw, was looking forward to a cracker, the kind of game you won’t be bored even if you saw 5 times repeatedly. But, expectations are at one place and delivery at another. Sometimes, when too less is expected and more delivered, the sense of joy is immense. While, if the expectations are high and by a little margin the delivery is less, there is sorrow. This applies not only in the football field but almost everywhere in our lives.
The faces spoke for themselves, full of the nervousness and anxiety.  Each and every one of those 22 players left their egos aside and were focusing on the game. It is not just a sport, to be honest, it is a bond between people of one nation and even between the people of the whole world. There can however be arguments that it can be said about any sport, but football is different. Different in a sense that people are very passionate about it.
Focusing on the game, the big built man was still moving forward, running like a fierce bull. He had almost travelled 2/3rd of the pitch alone and it seemed at times as if no person in the world could even touch him and break the attachment between his pair of shiny orange boots and the ball. The sight of him dribbling must have been amazing to watch for any neutral but not for me, because I had my “white” glasses on, so all I could see from my partial eyes was a rigid man moving forward and that no one from my team would even go near him. At times, it appeared like they were bullied by him in school and they are hence terrified.
He astoundingly passed it to the left to a comparatively skinny lad; it appeared as if he had more control over the ball than his own body! 
Just as he was showing his natural and flawless skills, a young man in a white jersey with the number 4 in his back threw in a one legged fine sliding tackle. The skinny youngster went to the ground in no time; every eyes were on the referee, Free kick? Yellow card? Red card? I bet that was going through everyone’s mind. The referee’s lips spoke something like “Get Up”, it was just my speculation. 
“It was good of the ref. He got the ball there, no foul.” The man on my right spoke to me in soft voice and I just nodded my head in a gesturing that I agreed, with a mild smile.
My eyes involuntarily went to the young lad’s face; his expressionless face expressed something, his dedication and ‘give a hundred percent’ attitude.
He had the ball right at his feet, he looked around searching for the right pass, he could see none of the players free, he passed it to the centre of defence to his other centre back compatriot. His CB compatriot, the number 5, was a tall and dark man with the sublime defensive skills, in fact, they even played for the same clubs. So, they had a good understanding among themselves and beating them in defence always would be a hell of a task for any opposition.
The fantastic number 5 gave the ball back to his compatriot once again. It was the start of a slow build up, as I assumed. They had done it so many times in the past, building up a solid move from the defence. Though young and relatively raw, they had all the experience they required to stop anyone on the planet with football skills.
The manager on the touch line did not seem as much animated this time as my eyes saw. Though it was early moments in the game, he seemed calm and composed. Or maybe the calmness was about to change later if some lad did a mistake. I guess most would call that management and I count myself among the ‘most’.
The shiny white ball reached to the keeper as the rays of the sun soon about to set were troubling the players to see the potential passes; that was somewhat of a problem. The keeper had looked cool and composed throughout the previous games and made a number of solid stops from distance. There were one or two jittery moments but nothing too serious. He had a fabulous distribution and was extremely confident but this day was special; the immense pressure and the anticipation of the fans back home; watching in the tele or in a bar, cheering for their team and hoping to finally win some silverware. He had to step up to the plate and stop anything thrown at him, it was the final after all. No room for error or excuses, for that matter.
I glanced at the clock on the far side, it read 3:12. My itching eyes then slowly turned on to the pitch as the keeper, who was very tall and was very mighty, kicked the ball as hard as he could but sadly enough for him, it went for a throw-in to the opposition. The throw-in was taken very quickly by the skinny youngster to another man in yellow. 
It was somewhat of a dark yellow and not the type of yellow we usually see with Brazil. Getting back to the game, the one who received the throw in was closing in on the penalty area, dribbling through one lad in the white jersey, the jersey had one star above the badge, and the lads giving it all to make it two!
He received the ball and quickly sprinted beating two players on the way, it was some skill, I must say, though I favoured the other team. He was just outside the penalty area, he must have thought about having a go but he did not do so, instead, he tried to chip the ball into the player on the near side of the penalty box, the player whom he tried to chip the ball to had the number 9 yellow shirt on his back and was eminent for his scoring ability. He shot the ball with all his efforts from the left hand side of the box; trying to get the ball into the net between the keeper and the post, but it was straight at the keeper who had no problems in stopping it and held it tightly in his hands.
I was quiet and so were some people around me. All of a sudden, “Where are you from?”, the girl next to me asked, that was a little unexpected and I was a little bit dazed for a moment there, that was one of the many reasons why I hated being around a girl in places like these, though “hated” would be a little strong word. “Not a place you would be familiar with, and certainly not from anywhere around here.” I replied in a slightly rude tone. I just wanted to focus on the game so I did not answer the question politely as I generally do. I assume she understood my gesture and that was the end of the conversation for the time being. I did not even completely notice what she looked like, I was embraced in the moment and I only had a little glimpse of her face but that was not enough to exactly tell how she looked like, to be frank, I couldn’t remember her face. “Anyways, who cares?” I said to myself.
On the other hand, the two men arguing in front of me seemed to have settled their argument; they were not “shouting” as much as they were earlier. 
On the pitch, the keeper had a long and hard kick at the ball, the goalkeeper; it went high and direct to the centre forward, who was a classic number 9 whom you could play the traditional long balls to and sometimes also could be used as a “plan B”. 
He headed the ball down to a teammate without any hesitation who then kept the ball just under his feet. He had the highly rated number ten shirt on his back and was undoubtedly the most talented player in the white bunch of “stars”, he was in the centre circle with two players from the opposition approaching towards him in order to close him down. They must have been at ten yards distance each slowly moving in. The referee in his black uniform was also at ten yards distance, give or take.
The elegant number ten saw the guy with number fourteen running towards the by-line hoping for a through ball in the air. The graceful number ten had a hard look and without any further ado, went for the through ball. The pass was just excellent, a pass that even any centre midfielder would be proud of, considering that he was a second striker who liked to drop to midfield in order to find some space, he would have been pleased.
The ball reached exactly to number fourteen, it was not even a foot left or right, just straight at his feet. He was clear on goal, EVERYONE ON THEIR FEET in the stadium, except some fans in yellow. He was one on one with the keeper! Darn! The assistant on the far side raised his flag for offside. Everyone supporting the three lions was obviously devastated!
The replay was shown in the big screen on the near side towards the fans in yellow (the stadium was more than half filled by the fans supporting the home side and wearing yellow and outnumbered us in white). AH! Just by half a yard, it was a good call by the assistant referee though, despite being hugely under pressure.
That was a great opportunity for us to unlock the score. So, moving on, the keeper took the free kick from the right hand side to left. It went straight to his defender, who then without wasting any time passed it onto the midfield to one of those stylish dribblers that Brazil has been producing since the past and is still producing them.
They passed the ball to each other searching for that penetrating through ball, and the English defence wasn’t helping them, the two young lads in the centre of English defence were stuck to their feet and left no space for the Samba boys to exploit. It was partly because they played in the same club as I said earlier and had a real understanding.
Quite astoundingly, one of the midfielder of Brazil had a go from way out, around 30 yards to be precise but it did not trouble the keeper, instead it went way out to the stands to the dancing and cheering South Americans in yellow. It was like a torrent of yellow; you could see nothing but men dressed in yellow jerseys and dancing, not their typical samba dance though.
The keeper took the goal kick short this time around straight onto the centre back who was in the centre of the defence, the 22-year-old was fearless at the back and looked as if he'd been playing at this level for a decade in the previous matches in the quarter finals and the semi finals. He was roaring into tackles and organising his fellow defenders; extremely composed on the ball and often outfoxed opposition attackers with his positional play.
He then passed the ball forward onto the midfield once again to his counterpart in midfield who was very clever to say the least and was wearing a number 8 jersey. The talented playmaker made the midfield lark look easy; he always had time and made space, keeping his passes neat, tidy and accurate; his economical use of the ball was a contributory factor to this excellent performance by The Three Lions in this tournament. 
He then threaded a diagonal through ball onto the left on the far corner of my right hand side; he ran to get to the ball but fortunately enough for the Samba boys, there was too much contact on the ball by the centre midfielder so the left winger could not get to it and went out for a throw-in, he was one of the many talented players present in the English line-up for this massive game, naturally a winger, he could play even as an attacking midfielder; he did not have a huge physical presence but his technical skills were fabulous.
The Brazilians took a relatively long time to take the throw-in kind of arguing about who would take it but at last they resolved the matter, it could not obviously be a time-wasting tactics from the manager specially because there was a lot of time left in the game. So, one of the yellow men took the throw to a defender who then played it back to the goal-keeper. 
The keeper would have been in some trouble if he had not been fast enough because the quick and speedy number ten of the three-lions was closing in on him and he had to get the ball out of his feet  quick enough otherwise the striker would have been through on goal. The ball instead went for a corner because it was played out.
The number eight playmaker was on the ball, trying for a curling out swinger. Both the centre-backs were inside the penalty area trying to head the ball into the net and so was the long-haired tall centre forward; whereas, the number ten  striker was lurking outside the penalty area for a volley, in case the ball reached him.
 The corner was taken short astonishingly to the swift right winger with the number 14 on the back of his shirt. He crossed the ball and it had a lot of movement in the air; it was a high cross and reached the head a defender of the opposition, he half-cleared the ball with an outstanding header but it went straight to the Second striker from the English side who was loitering outside the penalty area to English fans’ delight. 
It was a perfect volley waiting to be hit, kind of volley that Sir. Paul Scholes would have been ready to hit on any day and score.  He hit the ball hard; the English star. It appeared as if the ball was destined to end up in the net, everyone tensed around me and obviously I was no exception.
The keeper dived towards his upper left; but it seemed like it would not be enough to save the Brazilians.
IT HIT THE BAR!! The rebound was hit by the left full-back wearing 3; it shoved the net and straight out for a goal kick! 
WHAT A CHANCE IT WAS! Excellent shot but the post was in the way; halting the thousands of men who would have got on the streets dancing and celebrating had it only been two inches under the bar and gone on to kiss the net! The joy in each man’s face must have been something worth watching, but that was not to happen yet. I presume that is what people call ‘luck’, which evidently was not in our side. 
On the brighter side though, the boys were playing really well, they had risen up to the occasion, and at least that is what it seemed from the look of things.  	 	
The keeper then took the goal kick, long and hard straight to the Brazilian centre forward who chested the ball down onto the other forward, it was bit of a scruffy pass, but he got there somehow. He then just kept the passing going by passing it then to the attacking midfielder in the centre circle.
Basically, the ‘Samba boys’ were playing a 4-4-2 with two strikers up front parallel to each other and did not have much width as the wide players were drifting inside, whereas, the Three Lions were also playing in a 4-4-2 formation but the second striker was just dropping into the midfield, and it was more like a 4-4-1-1; that way he would have more space ahead of him and more time; and to add to that they occupied the width.
The problem with the England teams in the past world cups have been that the media never talked tactics and instead would talk about all the big names and finding manager’s faults and so on. This time though, it was a little different. England had a settled goalkeeper which was very rare talking from an English point of view, plus England had an English manager who could understand what it is like to play for England; all those big expectations on the shoulders and the media making a huge issue if England didn’t play well.
 That was past though, this time, we had a fresh team, a relatively young side, excellent passing techniques and more importantly no ‘big’ players who would dominate the headlines instead of the team itself. 
And there were no huge expectations; so there was a slight chance of winning with no real pressure off the pitch. Though, you could argue that by saying ‘no huge expectations’, the expectations increased; when it is put that way, they still had pressure.
Keeping the jokes aside; the Brazilians had seen the ball very less so far i.e. from Brazilian standards. The Three Lions clearly dominated the possession and looked very comfortable unlike English World Cup standards where they somehow managed to look very insecure on the previous occasions.
The passing was sharp and precise and the Brazilians must have put at least ten passes together but they were stuck behind in the defence and were not showing any real intimidation to the Englishmen who were just the contrast.
The Brazilians carried more expectations on their shoulders than the English, to be honest. In spite of everything, it was a tournament on their home turf; they’d been brilliant so far in the tournament and were the favourites to win it, partly because they were playing high standard football and partly because people didn’t believe in the English team that it could win some silverware.
Out of the blue, the second striker from the English side slide and took the ball away from the dismayed opposition team. He moved forward throwing the ball forward and running behind the ball, no one from the opposition defence looked as if they’d tackle him and get rid of the danger. He was half-dribbling around ten yards outside the penalty area with two men from the opposition moving slowly in his direction in order to close him down. 
The English lad had a sophisticated expression on his face; mixture of determination, pressure to perform (though in very little amount) and last but not the least, enthusiasm to score a goal in this contest.
He searched for passes around him, the Brazilians looming forward en route to eradicate the threat; it may sound absurd but it almost gave the impression that they were moving towards him in slow motion; from the look of things. 
Often, in these kinds of precarious situations, it is better not to think of anything because it generates more pressure when we think about all the emotions we carry on our shoulders (in this context; the players). Consequently, I was anticipating him; the English striker, to shoot from outside the box at which he was very good at.
 As I lunged forward expecting to see the man shoot; someone from behind as I heard, called my name. I couldn’t distinguish if it was just my ears or really someone had called me. I looked around, not a man whom I knew, “Must be my ears.” I said to myself.
I shifted my eyes back onto the field; he was still with the ball but as soon as I said so, he passed it back to the midfield seeing no passes ahead of him. 
Goal scoring chances were few and far between on a disappointing night in Rio so far. The best we (me and the other fans) could hope for was a great move that would lead to a goal.
After a lively opening, the game’s tempo dipped to a more typical level for a world cup match. Less characteristic was Brazil’s use of the ball – or rather misuse with sloppy passes from central midfield handing the three lions opportunities they fortunately didn’t have the wherewithal to exploit but the positive side was the game was not even a quarter complete, but till the time it was certainly disappointing.
The ball was moved back and forth from midfield to defence and from defence onto the midfield; it was boring at times to watch. Then out of the blue, the number ten once again ran with the ball shrugging past defenders. Just outside the penalty area, he did a 360 turn, which to say the least, was fun to watch, the defenders just glared at each other and could do nothing. Then astonishingly, HE SHOT THE BALL!!! 
It was hit hard and very precisely by the experienced forward, but it equally saved and it was an excellent stop by the Brazilian keeper, diving towards his right, high, it certainly seemed once again as if it was going to end up in the net.
But the courageous keeper in the way of it, the Englishmen were playing far better and far more superior brand of football. Had I said this four years ago in Rustenburg, people would have thought I was mad. But the humiliating defeat was just the past and today we stood here to witness history made, records broken and last but certainly not the least, to watch proper football. 
The ball went out for a corner to the Englishmen and to the Brazilians’ astonishment, it was taken rather quickly by the centre midfielder who had the number seven jersey on, 22 years old, he was quite a footballer to say the least and unlike his age, very experienced too at the top level, in fact he had made his English debut just at the age of 18.
The lad to whom the quick corner was taken by the 22 year old, swung the ball high, the English centre backs waiting to get a free header, or just a header if the ball were to end up in the net, for that matter. It was certainly a routine cross but it had ‘classy header’ written all over it, but sadly it was not going to happen as the ball was cleared by the ‘bulldozer’.
However, it went straight to the English forward, waiting for a volley. They must have certainly practiced it in training. 
HE SHOT THE BALL....................GOAAAAAAAAALLLLLLLLLLLLL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Everyone going nuts!! 48 long years of wait and finally England score in the final through the forward for the first time since Sir.Geoff Hurst’s controversial hat-trick against Germany in 1966. People in England must have mad because of the immense joy; the people in the stadium certainly did. The look on the Goal scorer and other players’ faces one to watch. This is why people play and watch football, for the joy (of scoring goals), the passion on every fan’s face, the desire to score and score more, the pleasure of winning and living up to the expectations of everyone involved in the game, from Her Royal Highness, The Queen to every single man on the currently on the streets of Manchester or London and also every fan on the globe related in any way to the Three Lions. 
Every support staff, the manager, the assistant manager, coaches and physios all going nuts, dancing and celebrating on the touchline joining the few thousand of supports on my end of the field. The man on my right hand side, the lovely woman sitting right next to me, whose face I happened to see quite clearly this time around and the two lads in front all going mad with ecstasy. 
The long wait had finally paid off, and the forward couldn’t stop smiling and he had every right to! Afterall, he had scored a goal in Brazil, against Brazil and that too in the world cup final which looked rather unlikely a few years ago, if I am honest.
Now, the game was in the English manager’s hand, whether to go forward and double the lead and tear the Brazilians apart or to sit back and defend (which rather looked unlikely), whatever it was going to be, for the moment we did not care because we were commemorating the fine goal by the highly rated English forward. 
I just couldn’t get my mind off it, and I am sure anyone near me could not, it was such a splendid goal, hit from outside the penalty box high onto the top left hand corner, with the outside of his boot and also there was a little suspicion in my mind if it would go in but my suspicion was wrong and it went in that too with massive power and a slight curl.
 The score board on the top tear read ENGLAND 1 : 0 BRAZIL, and what a scene it was; by far the best I had ever seen in my whole footballing lifetime. 
But there were still a lot of minutes in the game, 72 excluding the stoppage time to be exact and the Samba boys could get a goal back or maybe even too. It would be just foolishness to count the chickens before they even hatched.
 The odds were not very high that the Brazilians would get a goal back considering the fact that English defence was just phenomenal. The fans were still chanting ‘FOOTBALL AND WORLD CUP COMING HOME’; I certainly was relishing the moment and celebrating with all the people around me.
“On the German’s face, suck on that”, man on my right shouted and we had a long and lengthy football talks and. I asked what his name was and he replied “Paul, from Oxford.” He went on to say his history which I didn’t really care about. Then, he asked my name and where I lived; I gave him my answers to his questions. 
Unlike the other time I wanted to talk to someone about the goal not only because it was a beauty but also as I felt like talking this time around most probably because I had a refreshed mood because the English were in front and the sense of nervousness in me had gone astray. 
So, I began my conversation with the lovely lady, or it would be better to say recommenced my talks. I asked her name too and where she was from and she did the vice versa. And I learned that the two were sitting next to me Paul and Paula. I could not help but laugh although I tried my hardest to control it. 
She asked “What happened, what do you find so amusing?” to which my ‘fabricated’ answer was “Oh no, nothing, I just remembered the goal, it was quite extraordinary, wasn’t it? I counter-questioned. She nodded in a kind of gesture which said ‘sure’.
Keeping the history, celebrations, the conversation and the goal aside, the ball was in the centre circle with the two forwards from the Brazilian side who looked somewhat tensed like they should have been. The play resumed and the ball was thrown back to the defence by one of the striker rather hastily. The centre back held the ball as the quick English forwards were approaching him. He then laid it back to the goalkeeper who had a long and hard kick at the ball, which obviously was not a surprise.
The ball went directly onto the chest of the tall and long-haired English forward who controlled it the first time, his control was quite good. He then searched for players who were free around him; he found the forward who had just scored the amazing goal and gave the ball to him. The goal scorer then cleverly back heeled the ball with his first touch and scuttled forward hoping for a through ball that would match his clever run.
It had reached to the defence by the time the forward was at the opposition penalty area. He turned back and walked towards the centre circle because he did not get the through ball he wanted and you could see from his face that he was undoubtedly mad at his teammates. 
On the other hand, another build up from the back was being constructed by the two young defenders. It was then passed onto the right back, with the obvious number 2 on the back and on his shorts. Though massively built and kind of stocky, he could sprint very fast. He has the body and pace to suit a full-back and it there were a few eyebrows raised when he was not picked for the side in the last world cup in SA.
He ran with some pace and crossed the half way line along with the ball, he then gave it to the right winger who was 10 yards from the by-line, he i.e. the winger got the ball and controlled it. 
He got past the Brazilian left back who was marking him, with some ease. Then he swung the ball in anticipating a header, it was a low, quick cross but no one could get their head to it, so it went out on the other side for a throw-in. Had the tall English striker been a second or two quicker, it would have certainly made the keeper’s life difficult, who already was having the time of his lifetime.
Just as I turned my head around to get a bottle of water, the long-haired striker stole the round and shiny ball from the defender in yellow shirt. He was clear on goal, just the keeper stood in front of him and the goal.............Exciting moments in the stadium, once again everyone ON THEIR FEET!
He chipped the ball, the two seconds felt like two months figuratively and everyone (the English fans) watching and as if waiting to burst into delight. It went straight onto the top of the net in the shape of a projectile, woo!! To be honest, it was easier to score than to miss but trying the clever chip, he jeopardized it. It is easier to be critical but still he should have gone for a simple shot with proper placement and accuracy.
Nevertheless, the English side looked as if it was very eager to take the trophy to England; they played like champions, complete domination of the game, possession was very high and most importantly, they were creating chances. Though it might be too early to say, especially because it was a Football game and anything could happen till the last minute, the English side were rampaging and certainly from the look of things looked set to run riot with the trophy.
The Brazilian keeper had a lot to do today and still just the 20 minutes gone, and there was another goal kick waiting to be taken which the keeper ultimately took and it went straight to one of the Brazilian ‘dribbling’ midfield maestros. The manager on the touchline seemed furious with his players’ performance and he had every right to be infuriated.
 The performance was below par by every standard; they did not have the aura of the classic Brazilian side whose football used to be of very high class and whenever Brazil were involved, it used to be fun to watch for any neutral but this game did not have the air.
Maybe I was counting my chickens too fast because one of the Brazilian wingers got the ball and ran along the right flank and hit an early cross around the English left back, the kind of cross that David Beckham was awfully famous for. It was a hoisted cross and a good one but thankfully for the three lions, the cross met no Brazilian head and it was cleared by the English centre back onto the midfield.
The slow passing move set out on its journey once again, one gives it to another, another to another and again another to the first one, it seemed pretty dull. Then, the centre midfielder with the number seven on his back, set off the left winger with a through ball.
He ran behind the ball, it was kind of over hit by the young centre midfielder and it rather went out for a throw-in to the Brazilian side which was taken quickly and thrown back to the keeper once again. At times I felt like leaving the stadium and leaving just because it was not a game of high standard though the teams involved were extraordinary, the X-Factor was nowhere to be seen.
The myth of the new Brazil seemed well and cooked after witnessing a dismal affair so far which wasn’t pretty on the eyes of the neutral, and probably wasn’t particularly aesthetic for anyone not waving their flag behind the enemy line. Only one side was particularly close to scoring and the whole thing had that drab inevitability of a simple and boring victory to the three lions.
The St. George’s flag stood tall behind my back and I felt somewhat proud. People singing ‘God save the queen’ just made me more and more passionate and I suppose, it did the same to the players on the field as well. The traumatizing experiences of the past World cups, the European championships all was worth it and when I started to remember the Portugal game in 2006, the European championship we never qualified for in 2008, the World cup in 2010, they made not only me but I presume, every English supporter even more delighted and feel like exploding in that moment of joy.
The past was gloomy, the present looked bright and the future even more brighter, the long awaited silverware, the media’s presumptions about English players not being technically gifted, seemed all would be proven wrong in this beautiful evening here in South America.The Samba boys out on a quick counter attack the ball was with the right sided attacking midfielder; an excellent one-two with the winger, seemingly passing two players on the way, the midfielders from the English side were back-peddling trying to stop the Brazilian attack. The midfielder was outside the box and he hit a curling thunderous shot to the right of the tall English keeper who dived as far as he could, he touched the ball but didn’t seem like it was enough to prevent the goal, every single fan watching eagerly, it hit the keeper on the way, hit the BAR! And out for a corner, phew! Lucky escape there for England, I literally had my heart in my mouth. 
It was a low corner but a poor one and the English captain, the number 10 had absolutely no problem in dealing with it. He headed the ball straight to one of his players and England set out on another voyage of counter-attack. The two swift wingers got on their bikes, leaving the Brazilian full backs in awe; they could do nothing but watch. The right winger was closing in on the by-line when one of the centre backs of Brazil tackled him hard from behind, and took both of his legs away. Even from a neutral perspective, that clearly deserved a red-card. The referee called the defender, the English players surrounded the referee in order to persuade him to take out the red card but the referee told each and every player to get away and called only the defender towards him. The assistant on the far side could see the incident clearly but he did not suggest anything to the referee.From the look of things, seemed as if he would send him off and what a blow that would be to Brazil’s world cup dream in its own country, one nil down within twenty minutes and now a player potentially being sent-off. The referee got his hands to his pocket, which colour is it, everyone anxious, he pulled out a card and a big cheer erupted, because it was an YELLOW when everyone, and pretty much anyone was speculating a red. 
The player whereas was still protesting probably saying that he got the ball but as the replay showed, he was nowhere near the ball, got the legs of the defender and was a two-footed challenge, the tackle had red card written all over it but the referee was not bold enough to show a red because it was just the first half and probably he wanted a fair game to happen and when it’s put that way, the referee was correct but have no doubts; it definitely deserved a RED.
So, moving on with the game, the captain courageous from the English side was on the ball to take the free-kick equidistance from the border of the penalty box and the corner area. He was supposedly going for an outsider hoping that one of his team-mates would get on the end of it. He hoisted the free kick with a ‘David Beckham’ kind of bend and an English defender got on top of one of the Brazilians but he miscued it completely and it went straight to the keeper who had no trouble in dealing with it whatsoever.
His intentions were to send Brazil on a clear counter-attack but rather it went straight out for a throw-in to the English side and the English right back took it quite quickly.Right-winger was on possession of the ball and then he threaded it to one of the centre midfielders who controlled it inside the centre circle; there were four players ahead of him on the field but instead he opted to play it back to the defence to his reliable compatriots.
 I glanced at the clock once again and it read 24:12, still a long way to go in the game but seemed as everything had already happened. To be honest, if the game had finished right then, I would have been very happy because the Englishmen would go home with restored pride and more importantly the world cup.
 Almost everyone must have been watching the game in England and not only in England but here in Brazil, in fact, everywhere around the world. I could see the wildest passion for the game that was there in every supporter’s eyes, looking for another goal or waiting for an equalizer, it did not matter because that was it, that’s why people loved the game.
Moving on with the game, it was rolled on to the left back who was very experienced and had more than hundred caps for his country but he had never scored a single goal which obviously was a sad thing for him because when you give everything and play for your country, you undoubtedly want to score a goal; you want to be lost in that joyous moment scoring for your country, unfortunately for some of us, that’ll never be possible.
 It was the left-winger who had the ball; he ran along the left flank and went inside of the right back; quite contrary to what was expected. He then turned and gave it to the forward from the English side. He controlled it about thirty yards from the goal; it wasn’t actually a perfect opportunity to go for a goal and didn’t appear that he would go for it and quite so, he picked to thump a through ball  on his right to the winger to ran past the left-back.
The left-back just kept watching but the winger did not cross the ball early enough to everyone’s surprise, which then gave the Brazilian left back to get back and tackle the winger. He nudged the speedy winger onto the ground and regained the ball. The English players looked at the referee expecting a free-kick but nothing given. 
I felt close to the loyalty and vigour of the youth there; perhaps time might separate them, but nobody can deny that there, behind the windows of English dressing room and in United Kingdom; in Manchester, in London, in Midlands; there is an insane love for football, of celebration and of music of football.
Once again, drawing my eyes back on to the game, I noticed the ball being with the same defender who nudged the English player. He was five yards short of the centre circle. It was then given to the midfielder; who laid it onto another centre midfielder who took a long stride; kicked the ball ahead and ran behind it.
The normal routine of passing started as the South American lads tried to keep the possession, they completed a number of passes together and not a single English player anywhere near the ball in addition to that the Brazilians had plenty of space ahead of them but quite astoundingly they opted to sit back when they were still a goal behind; quite a surprise it was. 
Many of the fans thought they would go for an all out attack but from the look of the manager’s face it was clear that they would rather try the defensive possession game; I could not understand why and neither did any of the supporters around me from the look of things.
Seeing nothing interesting happening in the field, I glanced at the girl for a moment; this time I noticed her for quite a long time; she had pretty and beautiful long hair; clear and gorgeous eyes and a beautiful smile. She turned and looked at me, suddenly, bells started ringing, I quickly took my eyes off her and gestured as if I was looking at the scoreboard and not her. 
I felt for a moment that I was too much involved in the game and did not even have the time to have a look at the girl in these twenty seven minutes; quite astonishing it was. I wanted to talk to her but I did not know what to speak, all I could think about was the game, nothing else was in my mind.
So, I broke the ice “Good game, eh?” I asked.
 I could not come up with a better sentence. “Yeah, let’s hope we win it.”, she replied. I was still gutted by the fact that I had replied her rudely the last time around when she asked me a question.   Getting back onto the field once again, the two full backs from the opposition were past the centre line, it was a surprise because it was the first time they had done so. They were showing some courage which particularly came from the manager than from the players themselves. 
England had everyone except the centre forward behind the ball which again was another surprise because they were on the defensive for the first time in the game and the manager of England who played for Leyton orient during his playing career and had managed teams like Blackpool and was very popular amongst the English fans, did not have in his temperament to sit back and defend. He had a simple philosophy; if opposition score four, you score five which had worked brilliantly so far in this campaign and also in the qualifiers. So, I couldn’t quite understand why the Englishmen were on the defensive rather than broadening the lead and making sure of the victory. 
And also what I and every England supporter appreciated was the formation; England did not have a definite holding midfielder and the two centre midfielders both would go for attack; which was quite contrary to the German or Italian football philosophy. Plus, why I think England had done so well in the tournament was because they were playing English style football rather than copying the Dutch total football; the Italian defensive football; the Brazilian style magic of dribble. They had a proper centre-forward, another striker; who also happened to be the captain, behind him, two wingers who created width in the game and two attack minded centre midfielders, proper English style. Desolately, the managers in the past were not courageous enough to play the English attacking style and maybe it was so partly because most of the past managers were foreigners and didn’t understand the English game, English fans’ passion and love for the Beautiful game.	At least now, we could say that the English FA (or simply the FA); the oldest football association in the world, had learnt from its bitter experience of Korea-Japan, Germany and South Africa. And maybe that was why they had opted to hire an English manager.
As I was seemingly lost in my thoughts, the Brazilians were looming outside the English penalty area and not only pressurizing the defenders but the English midfielders as well. And as before, I could see all but one player inside the penalty area i.e. the English eighteen yard area. The men in yellow were clearly in pursuit of a goal which they needed very badly. 
The attacking midfielder of Brazil who had the possession just outside the penalty area laid it to his midfield counterpart but the English defenders came rushing for the ball and in spite of it, the midfielder went for the goal as he was slightly quicker to get to the ball. He hit the ball really hard but did not seem to place it quite well. The English keeper dived to the right top corner of the net, got nowhere near the ball and A GOAAALLL! THE WHOLE PLACE ERUPTED IN MADNESS!! The player joined the crowd in celebration of the magnificent goal! Though I was supporting the other team it would not be fair not to admire the goal because it was just STUNNING.
Excellent passage of play and the first chance they got, they converted it into a goal and after all, that’s football. No matter how much England dominated the game, it didn’t matter because Brazil had equalized after just 13 minutes that England had taken the lead via a screamer. The game could be won by both sides now, all neutralized though the Brazilian heads were pretty much high that they had just scored.
The Brazilian manager just going crazy in his weird celebration and all the players were above the goal scorer; he must have died in there because of suffocation; all the players except the goalkeeper were literally over him going mad and the supporters going berserk.
On the other hand, the English camp of supporters did not seem so happy and some of them even had tears on their eyes, would the same thing that happened four years ago was going to happen again? 
I took a glimpse of the touchline but the English manager was not there, instead he was on the dugout with not the happiest of expressions that I have seen from him. The players however were giving everything they could on the field after the play had resumed.     
There is nothing England could have done any better in this tournament. Was it true that the English players were not technically gifted? Suspicions seemed to be raised once again. Was it going to be the same old story of winning nothing despite having wealth of talent? Was it because the English players were over-rated? Was 1966’s victory more of a curse because it was after that the expectations increased. I could see the dark clouds looming over the adored English football once again if England were not to win the cup again this year too. Another four years of wait? Was I making too much out of it? The media hype once again? The criticisms all over again? My ears were not ready to hear those once again, it was not a story to be repeated every four years, enough was enough, I had too much of it. Was the 48 years of wait going to be 52? Then 56, 60, 64 and on and on and on? I could not take any more of that. It was too much for me to handle, my love and respect for the nation could not watch any more of it, any more of the stubborn F.A. I stood up, put my hand in my chest and started to sing ‘WE STILL BELIEVE.............it’s coming home........Football’s coming home’, I asked some of the people around me to join me, which they did and some joined themselves. 
It was a very nice feeling; it certainly lifted some of the lost spirit and a small English voice started to surround the stadium, St.George’s flag flying high and so were the English players’ guts.
 I don’t know if it was only me or everyone that thought the English manager’s morale were also motivated and he seemed livelier.
He instructed the players to handle themselves, keep their heads up and focus on scoring another goal rather than mourning. The match was still in our own hands, it was just one-one, we needed that bit of oomph to lift the players up and hopefully keep the Brazilians on the back foot again.
Diverting my eyes onto the field, I saw that the ball was with an Englishman, the 22 year old centre midfielder who was searching for pass around him. He saw the sprinting winger make a run inside the left back from the Brazilian side.
He went for the lofted through ball which landed just ahead of the winger; who also was the club counterpart of his.He was moving forward towards the by-line as, one of the Brazilian centre backs was trying to close down him; the defender slid and took the ball away. It went out for a corner just near the corner of the field which at first looked as if it would be taken by the winger but instead he gave the ball to the right-back who asked a towel and wiped the ball. 
He was about to take a Rory Delap kind of long throw straight to the penalty area hoping that one of the Englishmen would get on the end of it and head it onto the net.
The throw was taken and like he hoped, it was a really good throw but the English any head did not reach it and the keeper comfortably caught the ball. He then released the Brazilian attacking midfielders out on a counter attack. The midfielders sprinted pretty quick playing a superb one-two leaving three English players in awe. 
Just as one midfielder from the Brazilian side was about to pass it onto the forward, the English young defender with the number 4 on the back came forward with an excellent interception which frustrated the Brazilian lad much more than anything else.
The centre-back from the English defence was very much different from the ‘normal’ English centre defenders because he liked to play the ball out of defence instead of clearing the ball anyhow, like most of the English centre-backs did. Also, the other good quality that he had was that he was a very good passer of the ball unlike many defenders. That was also the reason why he could play in the midfield sometimes and he had terrific leadership qualities; he organized defenders and helped the captain a lot. People do not regard defenders very highly; for instance, when was the last time that a defender got the title of ‘WORLD PLAYER OF THE YEAR’? 
That’s because people do not see the contributions of the defenders but instead what they only want is goals which defenders rarely provide, that was one attitude of the fans that needed some improvement. If any defender would get the title someday the first name to go in mind of fans would be this man’s.
 He, after the wonderful interception, made a run to the centre circle along with the ball and like I said, he was not afraid to do so; and maybe it was partly because he had a reliable centre-back partner whom he knew incredibly well.
After he reached the centre circle, he allowed the mid-fielders to take charge of the ball who did it quite well; the English were getting back to their game, slowly but surely. They were keeping proper possession of the ball and were not giving it to the opposition easily, another aspect previous English sides quite clearly lacked.
The ball was held by the right back then after the centre-midfielder passed it to him; he ran past the left sided midfielder of Brazil. The tall, muscled and dark figure of the right-back quite clearly threatened defences.   
He was still on the right flank; the winger ahead of him and the two English strikers were hovering in and around the penalty area. He decided to send an early cross in; the English had created a lot of width in the game; the two wingers and the full-backs overlapping them, kind of thing you expect to see when there is a tall centre forward in the team who can head the ball with no trouble
The cross was high and wide; it was not a good cross by any standard, however, it managed to reach the left-winger on the other side of the field who then controlled it and kept the ball under his feet. He ran towards the by-line; then turned goalwards, and dribbled. He also did some quick stopovers. He was just outside the penalty-area then he chipped the ball towards the centre-forward who reached on the end of it and produced a powerful header. It was quite astonishing to see that he was unmarked and got a free header.
 It was a very good header considering the fact that the cross was did not have any pace in it whatsoever. The ball managed to beat the keeper who just kept watching as he could nothing; his reflexes were not quick enough. But the left-back from the Brazilian side who was holding onto the net in order to save such headers from ending up in the net, managed to head the ball away.
Forlornly for Brazil, it went straight to the midfielder from the English side who happened to be floating just outside the penalty box. He shot the ball away but he caught the ball quite early and also to his team-mates’ disappointment it went very high and wide.     
 
The keeper once again lined the ball up for a regulation goal kick which was taken rather quickly by him. But forlornly enough for the Samba boys it went straight to an English player which disappointed the keeper quite a bit.  The English forward chested the ball onto his feet, but his touch was poor and it nearly led to the Brazilians winning the possession back. Nevertheless, the English captain was quick enough to get to the ball.
He gave it back to one of the reliable midfielders from the Three Lion’s side who kept the ball. There was a fair complexion of mixed emotions in his face; he obviously was nervous as it was his first world cup and every English player’s first world cup final. 
The young midfielder took a long stride forward; he was not very quick while running with the ball but had very quick feet and wore the number seven jersey which was very famous because once it used to belong to the legendary David Beckham. Seemed as if he and the ball had a bond; it was always under his feet and he never looked uncomfortable with the ball. A skill that needs a lot of experience but this young lad was doing wonders. Though he was not known for making any darting runs around the penalty area, he certainly knew how to pass the object, pin-point accuracy, had an excellent vision and where the other team members are; always ready for a pass and though relatively young he was very much reliable and confident as a footballer should be.
Despite him taking the stride forward, no one from the opposition showed any signs of trying to close him down. He then rolled it onto the left winger who again laid it back onto the centre midfielder, it did not seem like a promising move but it had a certain air about it.  It was back with the English midfielder once again who searched for his counterparts in order to find that killer pass that would just tilt the game once again towards England. He saw the right winger making a run towards the by-line and he went for that super lofted through ball. But the pass was slightly overhit and didn’t actually reach the winger’s feet. The winger ran and managed to keep it inside though.
After he was in full control of the ball, instead of crossing it to the penalty area he decided to lay it back to the right back who had made a run. The Englishmen were keeping the possession and not giving the Brazilians get any clear opportunity to score and take the advantage. The statistics showed that the English clearly dominated the game with fifty five percentage of the total ball possession so far; on any day that would have been a feat considering the fact that it was the World Cup final and all that currently mattered was a goal. It clearly illustrated that the English were on the rise with all the things except the Brazilian goal on their side. 
The right-back who had the ball was already in his original position and the ball was currently held by the centre midfielder who was passing the ball quite well. There were a few decent exchanges of passes from the English side which made the Brazilians even more frustrated. The English literally made them dance with the lovely possession game they played. It was rolled back and forth; excellent little single touches and every English player had awareness where their counterparts would be.
But the lovely football from the English side did not prevail long as one of the yellow men tackled and got the ball away. The possession game was finally broken as the Brazilians had the ball. They launched a quick counter attack with the sprinting dribblers on their way. It was with the Brazilian right sided attacking midfielder who sprinted forward.
The quality of the game had certainly increased from before in spite of the fact that both the teams were playing somewhat of a cautious football. And to be honest, they had every right to be cautious rather than just go for all out attack and leave space for the opposition to exploit. The half-time was also just around the corner and both the teams would be fairly happy with one-one scoreline at the half-time.
On the field, the Brazilian bunch were almost ten yards outside the English penalty area with just three English players and the goalkeeper standing on their way. The Brazilian then passed it onto the midfielder outside the penalty box lining up for a go at the ball. He got his boots under the ball and tried a chip above the goalkeeper’s head but the keeper was not troubled because it went over the bar and out for another goal kick to England. 
Except one or two moments the keeper had had very little to do if not nothing to do at all. The game was definitely not like typical English premiership game; it was not end to end there were very little exciting moments. When you are watching a world cup final, you obviously expect a spectacle and a kind of game you would watch over and over again sacrificing everything. 
The keeper took the goal kick short to the defender who controlled it well and rolled it onto the left-back. He dashed forward taking on the midfielders of the Brazilian side and beating them with some ease. He played an excellent one-two with the left-winger and continued his run forward; the destination being the by-line.
The right back of the Brazilian side was back peddling and was nowhere near the Englishman. The Brit was right next to the by-line as he controlled the ball and crossed the ball with quite some velocity. The centre forward leaped over a Brazilian defender and hit an extraordinary header but the keeper was quick to react and caught the ball with some ease.
As the game was moving forward I could see anxiety and hope in the faces of the people around me. Some of them had extreme nervousness in their faces whereas some were laughing, chatting and cheering. Quite a scene it was; the whole place sunk with delight as out of the blue the men in yellow launched a ferocious counter attack; for the second time within a matter of minutes.
They were slowly increasing the pressure on the team of the ‘lions’; or it could be said ‘the biggest underachievers of all time’ and maybe even ‘the bunch of overrated lads’, whichever way it was put, they were certainly under some pressure in this moment before half time. Still, the yellow men with the possession in the English half of the field and more players were joining the attack terrorising the English players, fans and the manager.   
 It was undoubtedly a quick and promising move from the Brazilians which was rather unlike them in this game because though they had shown their skills and passing in this game, it was, as I remember, the first time they had showcased any pace, not by an individual but by the team as a whole. 
However, the promising move broke down as one of the samba boys gave the ball sloppily away to an English midfielder to the disappointment of the Brazilian fans. He quickly sprinted to get the ball back but all his efforts went in vain as a beautiful pass was played to the forward of England who back heeled it quickly to the other forward who had some space ahead of him to exploit and keep the Brazilians under pressure which would then lead to a mistake.
He was running to the defences when suddenly a big tackle came from behind; one legged and quite dangerous; from the back and more importantly did not get the ball at all. The English player fell to the ground very quickly holding his knees in agony. 
As the replay on the far side showed, it was a very bad tackle. The phyisos and the staff were out on the technical area trying to see how bad it was. The players were signalling towards the dugout for a substitution if by any chance the player down would not be able to continue.
From the look of things seemed as if he could not continue and England would have to continue without a star player and the captain of course. So, it was really a blow for England who looked to win this contest and take the trophy back to their nation. But, if the captain himself would not be able to continue then it would be a big blow for England and their World Cup dreams.
The referee called the Brazilian who had committed the foul towards him and mind you, he had already been booked previously 
for his absurd tackle. And to be perfectly honest, this one deserved a clear red card. So, it was definite that Brazil was going to be reduced to ten men though would the referee be brave enough to show a red, questions rose again. 
The referee pulled out a card from his pocket and showed it to the player. It was another yellow, and a red followed. A man sent off!  Brazil due so such silly challenges were reduced to ten men and they had a real uphill battle to save this game from the raring Englishmen.
The Brazilian did not argue his case because he knew it was a reckless challenge whereas his teammates kept on arguing with the referee. The manager going shambles just on the touchline.
On the other hand, the English captain was ready to come on to the field to the delight of the English fans and also the players who seemed somewhat lifted and encouraged. Apparently, the injury was not as bad as anticipated. Everyone from the English camp welcomed the captain back. They were certainly relieved more than anything to have their captain back who would certainly drive the team forward.The ‘bulldozer’ then went straight out of the tunnel, maybe he did not wanted to face his manager after two reckless and needless challenges, and to be honest; no player in this world would want to face his manager after being sent off in a world cup. We certainly had seen that in the past and we saw it that day too, red card in world cup final was certainly getting common, 2006, 2010 and now 2014.
What no one in the world would dispute is the fact that the Brazilians were going to have their work cut out and the English would have a lot easier task to go on and win that long awaited silverware. It’s amazing how the temper or the frame of mind can convert in matter of seconds. The people, meaning the English supporters, almost everyone had a smile on their faces and I was no exception.
Nonetheless, call it co-incidence or whatever, every team when reduced to ten men would play far better, whether they would get the result or not is another question. We had seen a lot of evidences in the past, a team going down to 10 men and after that showcasing a brilliant display of football. 
The Brazilian supporters undoubtedly needed that and the Brazilian players needed something that would boost their morale and to remove that psychological stress and disadvantage. And luckily enough for them, the half-time was just around the corner if they wanted to change their formations and tactics or just have an inspiring team talk to uplift the players.
 
The play resumed with a short free-kick by the English midfielder to one his counterparts who held it and then rolled it back to the defence. The defenders nurtured the ball for some time and then gave it back to the goalkeeper. The Brazilian forward closing in towards to the goalkeeper hoping that he would make a mistake and he could capitalize from the mistake. But, the keeper was not troubled by the run and he launched it high with an immense force. It was likely to land on the Brazilian half just outside the penalty area.
No English player was anywhere near the ball as the only player in the Brazilian half from the English side was right next to the centre. The South American men were in charge of the ball and just kicked the ball around without any end product. 
All of a sudden one of the Brazilian got hold of the ball and started to run at the English defenders, he then played it onto one of his compatriots who controlled the ball despite not expecting it and although his first touch was poor. The ball was being rolled back and forth once again and no English player came forward with any kind of challenge. Seemed as if they were happy to sit back and let the Brazilians have the ball. The Brazilians on the other hand looked even more threatening and certainly livelier. 
It was then moved forward onto the midfield, they were keeping the ball very well. A long diagonal ball followed the excellent passage of play as the ball was lifted over the players by the centre midfielder to the player on the far right hand side. He controlled the ball and slowly moved it towards the by-line and the English left-back was alongside him in a position to block the cross. The Brazilian youngster who was playing his football in Spain did some step-overs which hardly troubled the English full back in his quest to steal the ball back. As the lad was trying to beat the swift Englishman with his clever step-overs, the Brit threw in a strong tackle which took the ball away from the Brazilian; it went out for a throw-in to Brazil which was taken rather hurriedly and it went straight to an English player to the annoyance of the Brazilian manager.
The English lad then rolled it back to his keeper who stood with the ball. One of the players of the opposition was running as fast as he could, trying to filch the ball from the English keeper. The keeper was somewhat discomforted by the run. The keeper was quick enough to take the ball away from the Brazilian but the opposition lad took the lags away of the keeper as he was not able to halt his run in time. 
The English keeper fell to the ground straight away and looked to be in agony. The physio rushed onto the field and went straight to the keeper. On the other hand, the Korean referee called the lad who committed the foul towards him and gave him a warning while the lad was still arguing his case. He was lucky enough to get away with a booking there on that occasion.
On the other hand, the English keeper was still on the ground and was telling something to the physio. As I diverted my eyes onto the touchline, I could see the furious English manager who was arguing with the fourth official about the tackle. We all knew the reason behind his furiousness. 
	The manager of the English side was still animated on the touchline about the tackle; he was discussing something with his assistant. On the field, the keeper was back on his feet whereas the physio was running back towards the dugout.
The game was underway after a short stop due to the minor injury scare to the English keeper. The ball was now on the centre circle with one of the English midfielders who got past a Brazilian with ease and then gave it to his team member on the far side.
While the game was going on, I could see some of the fans leaving their seats because the halftime was just around the corner. On the field though, one of the men in yellow had the ball who was running past an English midfielder. He rolled it to his team mate on the right hand side. He took charge of the ball and then lofted it to another Brazilian in yellow who was lurking outside the penalty box. The pass bisected two Englishmen and the Brazilian to whom the ball was addressed to, chipped the ball to the striker from his side. 
The chip beat the two English defenders and went straight to the forward. He without wasting any time shot the ball with quite some venom. The English keeper was on his knees and an English defender tried to get in way of the ball and the net which was shot from the right side inside the six yard box.
The keeper just kept watching as the ball beat him and sailed onto the top of the net and a GOAL to Brazil in those closing moments of the first half. The number one of England just kept watching as he could do nothing more. It was perfectly hit across the goal and went to the top of the net to the delight of the home fans. 
One thing was for sure, the Brazilian streets must have been filled with people going bonkers after their team had scored, the joy must have been one to watch but all I could see were tear drops. The salty taste summed it all up all those moments of joy were vanished suddenly.   The Brazilian went straight to the manager who was jumping and crying in glory along with his assistant on the touchline. The goal scorer took his shirt off and starting dancing and the rest of the team followed. On the other hand, most of the English players on the ground, some were trying really hard not to let tears drop out from their eyes. All the English supporters around me obviously devastated, in fact, ‘devastated’ would be a weak word. I don’t know how some of them managed to get a grip of themselves. On the stroke of halftime, the home side had taken the lead to leaving the English team shattered.
Tears were dropping out of my eyes, mixed emotions of sadness, frustration and rage. I felt like collapsing and I bet so did most of the players and fans around me. I could see all the fans wearing yellow celebrating with joy and that generated ember inside me, “All those years, what were we doing?” I thought to myself. I knew I had to get hold of myself but I couldn’t, despite playing this good, we were behind. What could be worse? The Brazilians led the game despite the Englishmen taking the lead early on in the game.
Out of all the Englishmen, the only two who were controlling their emotions on the field were the English manager and the English captain. The manager was instructing the captain telling him to do something. 
Good thing for England was that the half-time was approaching. The glanced at the clock which read 44:52; the fourth official held a board on the touchline which signalled one minute of stoppage time. My eyebrows certainly rose at seeing the board considering the fact that more time had been lost in the game due to injuries.
Once again when I looked at the people around me, the girl right next me was in tears. “Another half is still remaining, don’t worry, we will win this game and take the trophy home.” I tried to console her; she did not look at me though. She still had her hands covering her eyes trying to control the tears.It was all down to the manager now, he had to show all his management skills in this game because who knew if it would take another 48 years for England to reach another world cup final; who knew if we’d still be alive to see the three lions performing in the biggest match in football again, this was a time with pressure and opportunity to prove himself and that applied not only the manager but everyone of those eleven men trying and giving all they can for their team; for their country and for their fellow countrymen. He needed to inspire his troop and also uplift their morale during the halftime.
On the stands where I was sitting, the condition had not even a little; no one was enthusiastic about the game as they were earlier. They did not think that England would be able to turn around the one goal deficit. Moving on with the game, the ball was in the centre circle waiting to be kicked off by the two Englishmen, one in his late twenties who also happened to be the captain wearing the number ten shirt and another, the long-haired tall striker in his mid-twenties with the number nine on his back. The captain stood with his hands in his hips and moments later rolled the ball to his counterpart to resume the game after Brazil had scored the goal late in the first half. 
The Englishmen representing the St.George’s flag played some passes together and just as they were about to launch an attack via the two speedy wingers, the referee blew the whistle and that was all the game could offer in the first half. 
The game had not started as promisingly as we had anticipated but after the game began to settle, there were chances created and it was certainly a half full of excitement while talking from a neutral perspective. The game was not as end-to-end as you often expect to see but it’s not always that the expectations are fulfilled. And also I think most of the people in the stadium and watching in home or in a bar or a pub were eagerly waiting for the second half to start though most home supporters would want the game to halt right now.
I particularly was eager to see what the manager would tell his players in the dressing room in the half-time and how they’d respond to their manager and also what changes he would make in the half time.
HALFTIME	After the seemingly long fifteen minutes, the players appeared through the tunnel. The manager must have shared his thoughts during the break and instructed the players what to do and more importantly what not to do. The managers too were heading out of the tunnel after having their say in the respective camps. Of the two men, the Brazilian manager was by far the happier of the two because his side were in front during the half-time despite not playing the best brand of football anyone is ever likely to see and thought they had a man sent off.
What we all (the fans) were hoping for was another half similar to the first one which was just splendid. The players got to their respective positions and the ball was in the centre-circle waiting to be kicked and the two Brazilian lads were standing in the middle over the ball. Samba boys were playing from the left to right this half and the Three Lions from the right to the left.
Once again, like in the first half, everyone in the stadium was silent as the referee was about to blow his whistle. The whistle blew and everyone in the stadium cheered as the second half was underway. The hosts had the ball in their mid-field as it was passed to the midfield by the forward. 
It was then played back to the defence. From the first fifteen seconds of the second half, we could clearly see what the Brazilian’s tactics would be; i.e. to sit back and defend the one goal lead which seemed right considering the fact that they had only ten men on the field.
To the amazement of some fans, both the teams did not change any of their players during the half-time interval. Rather, both the managers opted to stick with the same tactics and the same players. However, the Brazilians after being reduced to ten men in the first half put the full-back in the centre of defence and one of the midfielders was playing the full back role. They were playing it safe and not taking any risks, in case there were some injuries or anything of that sort.
England however managed to get the ball back from Brazil and went for a quick counter. The captain had the ball and was instructing his troop to get forward’ then he rolled it back to his counterpart on the left hand side who just managed to keep the ball in play; after he managed to do so he continued his run towards the by-line. The twenty five year old managed to get past the right back of the home team with relative ease.
He reached the by-line in no time and hit an inviting low cross towards one of the English forwards. Every defender would be scared of such crosses because if a defender got a touch and tried to clear it, it might still end up in the net as an own-goal. Just a simple touch and it would be a goal, it was a fantastic cross. 
Fortunately enough for Brazil, the English players did not get on the end of it and it rolled out on the far side for the throw in to the samba boys. 
On the other hand, the winger who produced such a great cross had his hands on his head, maybe because no one got to the end of it.
One of the midfielders from Brazil had the ball with him after the throw in taken by the full back. But the pass from the midfielder was intercepted with quite some ease by the Englishman in white wearing number seven. The fabulous interception led to an all out attack.
On a completely irrelevant topic, the journey for England so far in the tournament had been spectacular; an easy group stage and they came though winning all of the three games and then beating Argentina, Germany in the round of sixteen and the quarter-finals respectively and crawling past Spain nervously on penalties in the semi-final stages and to sum it up, a final against the hosts themselves, Brazil. 
If they managed to win against Brazil, it would certainly be like a fairy tale to some of the fans; it would just be a perfect finish to a perfect campaign. And as we are used to it, England are known for doing things the harder way, if not doing nothing at all.
Brazil however had a relatively easier campaign comparatively. They too had managed to rampage past the group stages, absolutely demolishing oppositions. But with all due respect to the sides that faced Brazil, they had much less vigour than the sides that the Three Lions faced. 
Once again moving onto the on-field matters, The Three Lions temporarily took control thereafter as they went in search of a second goal which would be an equalizer, but Brazil still posed a threat. It was then astoundingly stolen back by one of the defenders from the Three Lions wearing the number four shirt; commanding and composed, the English centre-back snuffed out an early through ball to a Brazilian by his counterpart and without a doubt looked comfortable at the heart of the defence neutralizing every ‘South American’ attack.
Some fans groaned when the ball went out for a throw in as he failed to find a pass straight to one of his counterparts. Brazil then took control of the ball but not for long enough as again it went back to England as the consequence of a poor pass by Brazil this time.
 “It is laughable really”, Paul on my right said to me whom I had not noticed after he had gone away for sometime during the half time interval. “Yeah mate, lets keep hope though, who knows? It’s football. We may even win this one.” I replied trying my hardest to stay optimistic though I felt that it would take something spectacular to put the Brazilians on the back-foot again.
When I took my eyes back again to the field I could see the ball with the player with number eight on the back. 
A spiky display from the midfielder who was often too strong for the Brazilian players; an unfussy footballer, he helped make the side tick with a mature showing.
He still had that determination in his face that he had carried throughout the game and was focused as ever. I could directly see his face as England were driving themselves forward from my right hand side to the left.He was omnipresent at times; I could literally see him running everywhere closing down the Brazilian players and trying his hardest to get the ball back in case England lost the ball.
He was currently in the centre circle with the ball right underneath his feet. He lifted his head up to see where his team mates were. Then, he rolled it forward to his captain who had scored the only goal for the English side and was often drifting back onto the midfield in order to help his midfielders and to create space for himself; that had always been his way of playing. The first and foremost thing that kind of tactics did was leave the opposition defenders in dilemma whether to go with the man in order to mark him or to leave him alone. And if one of the defenders went alongside him, that would create more space for the front man ahead of him to exploit and if they went with the latter tactics and leave him alone, that would give him a lot of space to work with and he also could go for a clear shot from outside the penalty area.
 So, it was a win-win in both conditions. Also as Brazil were down to ten men, they could not afford to employ a defensive midfielder in case the English forward dropped back. The English forward who had the ball then lifted a high pass to his counterpart in the right side of the midfield who then ran as he normally would past the Brazilian defenders and they obviously were back-peddling but could get nowhere near him. 
Quite surprisingly, he hit an early low cross for the English main man to put in the back of the net; it was a beautiful curling ball aimed at the number nine.The curling cross proved to be a little overhit as the English forward could not reach it though it was a lovely ball. It went to this near side as the pace of the ball decreased; the right back from the opposition side came rushing in order to collect the ball. He then passed it forward and gave it to his companion who was exactly in the centre line. The Brazilian lad who was quite unnoticed throughout the game then took several strides forward towards the English penalty area. He was midway through the English half of the pitch when his team mate on the right called for the ball. He tried to chip the ball towards him but it went straight to an Englishman.
Soon after that, another voyage of counter attack began for the Three Lions after the interception. The left-winger with the ball on this near side tried some step overs but failed as the Brazilian defender cleared it out for a throw-in to England. And the English manager did not seem too fascinated with that specially because an English midfielder was free in the middle but the winger had opted to take the defender on. So, obviously you could understand the manager’s frustration as the team were down by one goal.
The assistant manager was called forward by the manager of the English team. I leaned forward to have a look at them and I could clearly see the manager explain his assistant something about formation. 
So, the obvious speculation I made was that the English side were about to make a change and do something so that this game would not slip away from their hands which looked imminent. 
England’s assistant manager then went to the bench and gestured someone from the bunch of players to get ready; I did not exactly know who he signalled to because I could not see the bench from where I was sitting. Soon after that, two players from the English side started warming up on this near side of the field. One of them was a very young lad in his teens and it was the fifth international match, I assumed he must have been involved in.
So, it would have really been a surprise had the manager brought him on and it would have been a massive confidence boost up for the lad and his career but I didn’t think the manager would be taking the risk of bringing such a young and inexperienced player in the world cup final let alone any other competition. But as they say, ‘If you are good enough, you are old enough.’ 
The other player of the two was also quite young but was not in his teens and had several caps to his name and also an international goal. The younger of the two youngsters played on the flank whereas the other one played up front. Both of them did not really have physicality but were certainly agile and quick enough to beat anyone from what I had seen.
Taking about the matters on the field, the Englishmen had the ball in the middle of the Brazilian half. The scoreline did not really justify the game to be honest; the English had far more control of the game but were still a goal down somehow. No matter how much we grudged about it, at the end of the day, all that counts is converting the chances into goals and the opposition had managed to do so.
The ball went out for a corner to England on the far side on the English right flank. The teenager had his jersey on with the number thirteen on the back. I could not see his face to exactly describe what his expressions were, but I am sure he must have been delighted and who wouldn’t to play in the world cup final without having justified yourself first. 
Maybe I was being too critical of the lad and his inexperience but I honestly saw no point in bringing him on when you are one goal down in the biggest match in football. The pressure is obviously massive and we certainly doubted if he could live up to expectations and give England a boost which they needed from somewhere. What it also proved was the manager had immense faith upon the lad and trusted him and the youth system. The bare headed assistant manager was explaining the tactics to the lad and the lad had his eyes on the notebook.
The fourth official then raised his board to signal the substitution and everyone watched with anxiety to see who the lad replaced. It was the right winger who was coming off. He did not seem that surprised when his number was shown on the board; he then rushed from the right side to this near side for the substitution. He hugged the young lad and whispered ‘good luck’ I think it was in his ears. The manager patted the player coming on the back and shook hands with him. He had certainly played well. He took his seat on the bench with the other lads who were sitting; they too shook hands with him and congratulated him.
The teenager then talked a thing or two with his captain, maybe explaining him the tactics that the manager had just told him. After doing so, he went to the right flank occupying the position vacated by the winger. I had not really seen much of the lad while playing for his club but people said he had great potential. 
I asked Paul about the youngster. ”Where were you living in? Moon? Or Mars?” he replied, I laughed but he continued, “This boy is the hottest prospect in English football right now, he can do wonders, some call him the next George Best.” He said.
In my defence, “I am not supposed to know about every boy that comes through the ranks!” I said that but only in my mind. I just nodded my head to what Paul said.
No matter how much he tried the ‘hottest prospect’ in English football was not able to wipe that smile off he had in his face. He looked enthusiastic like any youngster would and was running around everywhere trying the hardest to get the ball. The boy seemed impressive, not only while with the ball but without the ball as well. The determination to dispossess the opposition was amazing to watch. He was in the right back position already running alongside the Brazilian midfielder who had the ball. He slid and managed to rob the Brazilian midfielder. Most of my doubts were erased after seeing the enthusiasm and I was certainly impressed to say the least.  
He rolled it onto the midfield and once again the build up began from the English side. The manager was not as animated on the touchlines as he was earlier. On the other hand, the Brazilian camp was getting ready for a couple of substitutions. The manager gestured something to the captain from the Brazilian side. Soon after that three lads started to warm up near the touchline.
Talking about matters on the field, England still held the ball and it was captain himself but he gave it back to his counterpart in midfield who was almost forty yards from the opposition goal. He was lining himself for a screamer from almost thirty five yards out. A Brazilian player slid in an attempt to take the ball but the midfielder managed to ride over that challenge and went for a shot from thirty five yards.
But to the fans’ disappointment it went sailing over the post and into the stands; he was obviously quite disappointed himself with the shot. He caught the ball quite early, and was not able to make the contact he hoped for. The South Americans got on with the game with a long free kick taken by the keeper which was headed by a Brazilian out for a throw in after a slight jostle with an Englishman in air. It was taken quickly by England, going from right to left in this second half; they held the ball quite well together. The move seemed promising; the captain pushing and inspiring his team forward as always. He lifted the ball to the teenager who had just come on to the field. He faced towards the Brazilian left back on the far side while the ball was right underneath his feet. 
He did some quick dribbling and managed to get past the left back with some difficulty; both of them both pushing and shoving each other. I could notice pulling the shirts even from the stands; I wonder how the referee could not. 
The English players shouting for a penalty but the referee shook his head and pointed towards the ball. The ball was finally cleared by the opposition defender out for a corner after the jostle and all the shirt pulling. Few players of England patted the boy on the back for showing his bravery and giving it all he could.
The midfielder placed the ball on the corner line and got ready to take the corner. The central defenders from England also joined the forwards in the penalty area to head the ball goalwards. Just as the midfielder was about take the corner, the referee noticed pushing going on inside the penalty area. He called two players forward, who were almost in a mini brawl, from the respective sides and told them to cut it off and get on with the game. That was what I assumed from the referee’s expressions and body language.
The referee showed both the players yellow cards; both of them were complaining with the referee but the referee pointed towards the penalty box and told them to get on with the game. After both of them had restored their places, the twenty two year old midfielder of England took the corner short to the teenager and he was again facing the left full back.
 This time however, he managed to get past him with ease; he outwitted the player and got into the penalty area, it was clear that he would not go for a shot because that was an impossible angle to score from. He was just about to hit a cross as the left back threw in a challenge. Though he got the ball, the player was down and the challenge looked malicious. To be honest, you would not be surprised if it was given as a penalty. The young lad was flat on the ground holding his knees as the physios rushed forward.
On the other hand, everyone was anxious and was looking at the referee to know whether it would be a penalty or not. The players in white were surrounding the referee but he told them to get away. He blew his whistle and pointed towards the penalty spot. Every English fan burst with joy and so did the manager along with his support staffs. 
Then, the left back was called by the referee towards him and we were wondering what it was going to be. He reached out his pocket and took out a yellow to the some relief of the Brazil fans though they were obviously devastated by giving away the penalty and the Brazilian manager shared the emotions from the look on his face.
On the other hand, the argument was going on between the player and the referee and the referee was telling him to regain his position. The captain wearing the ten number jersey stood over the ball; he had already scored a goal early on in the game. The manager of Brazil was animated on the touchline whereas all we English fans had their fingers crossed. Some of the fans could not even watch the penalty.
The keeper was positioning himself for the penalty, all the players were outside the penalty area. The Englishman had his hands on his hips. He looked nervous as any man would while taking a penalty. Felt like everything was happening very slowly, we were about to die because of the excitement. He slowly moved forward, drifted towards the left a little. There was that look on his face; that determination to score. 
He approached the ball; it was the perfect moment for England to score and equalize. The clock read 57:14 as I looked above me; so if England were to score the penalty they would be in a comfortable position also because of the fact that Brazil were down to ten men and England were comfortable over the ball. 
The captain of the English side whacked the ball, it seemed like it would end up in the net. The keeper dived the other way as he looked at the ball; felt like everything was happening very slow. The Englishman went for power rather than placement. The ball was going towards the top right hand corner whereas the keeper was diving towards the left. It was firmly hit; all of us watching closely, the ball hit the bar!!!! 
Then the ball rebounded off the post, and there was the English captain to tap the ball, right in front of goal to make the score two all. What a relief it was! The whole stadium had erupted as the ball hit the bar but sadly enough and to the disappointment of every single Brazil fan, it rebounded off the post and luckily for England the captain was there to slot home the equalizer and to give England the chance of winning the tournament. 
The stadium seemed silent as he poached the goal in and went straight towards the corner flag to celebrate with his team mates and all of them congratulated the captain as well as the youngster who played a vital part in winning the penalty for the English side.
 The substitution made by the manager had paid off and to many of us (and I count myself in that), it was quite a surprise to be honest. The lad was very impressive and on the other hand, the English captain was now on a hat-trick. The few English fans (comparing the number to the Brazil fans) were mad with joy.
 England were now clearly the front runners in the game, however, the game was still balanced at two-two. So, though Brazil were a man down it would be sheer naivety to count them out of the game. However, there is no denial in the fact that English were the ones closer to victory. Every single English fan had a smile on his face.
 We just could not hide our joy and there was no need to. The manager and his support staff were still dancing with joy on the touchline along with the thousands of English fans in the streets of London, Manchester, Liverpool, Birmingham, midlands and everywhere. 
Forgetting all their bitter club rivalries and supporting their team in this fierce ‘clash of the titans’; forgetting Arsenal, forgetting Chelsea, forgetting Manchester united and every single club and just focusing on their national team, the land of the Three Lions, England.
 With all due respect to every other team around the whole world, I do not think that any country in this world has as passionate and football loving fans as we do. After all, England is the motherland of football and I know that every single English fan would be proud of saying that.
 If asked to any fan in England whether they would want their respective clubs to lift the UEFA Champions League or England to win the world cup, I do not think that there would be any fan who would say their club to win the UEFA Champions League.  
Moving on with matters in the game, the English manager was preparing for the substitution and, another young midfielder wearing the number nineteen shirt was being prepared to come on as the Brazilians were about to resume the game after the goal. The fourth official raised his board and the centre forward with the number nine shirt on made way for the twenty one year old young midfielder playing his football with Chelsea at club level. It was certainly a surprising substitution as no one had guessed that the centre forward would be coming off. 
But as we could see, the manager had other plans. The substitution meant that England would be playing a different formation with three midfielders and the captain who loved to drift on to the midfield playing alone up front with the two wingers on each side. 
It was also clear that England clearly wanted to take the initiative and go for the goal that would kill the game and also not let the Brazilians take control of the game by dominating the possession in the centre of the field. 
The English manager was somewhat cautious too considering the fact that he went for possession game rather that going for all out attack. So, clearly he was playing it safe and not letting Brazil win on any conditions from there on. 
The play resumed with the two lads in yellow kicking off from the centre circle. They looked more nervous from before as the ball was slowly played back to the keeper.
But the keeper misread the bounce of the ball and the ball nearly crept over the line for an own goal. Nonetheless, he was able to get to the ball before it went in. Had the ball crept in, it would have been the most bizarre and weird way to concede a goal when you are two all in a game, that too in the biggest match in football. 
Then, the keeper passed the ball forward to his defender and again it was played back and forth aimlessly and with no vision whatsoever. They were keeping the ball quite well but did show any urgency to go forward and take the lead.
 Whether they were settling for a draw and thinking about winning the game on penalties, I do not know, maybe that was the case specially because England were the worst team in the world when it comes down to penalties and the history showed that. Possession was still with Brazil as they tried to unlock the English midfield which looked even more rigid after the substitution was made.
On the dugout, Brazil’s boss was showing a piece of paper to one if his players who was on the bench, so it was clear that Brazil were about to make another substitution, whether a positive or a negative substitution, only the Brazilian manager knew that. 
Just as the ball went out for a throw-in to England, the fourth official again got his board up and the board signalled that the player wearing the number eight jersey would be coming off and it was one of the attacking midfielders who had played very well so far in the game coming off. So there was another surprise in the game. 
The player coming on was wearing the number fifteen shirt. I had not seen him play so far, so I asked Paul if he knew anything about the lad. He told me that he played in Italy and he too did not know anything more about the player.
The Brazilian who was coming off looked quite disappointed and he had every right to be disappointed because he was playing very well in the game. Just as he came off, he shook the lad’s hand who was coming on and patted him on the back. The player rushed into the field and took his position; he also informed his captain whatever the manager had told him earlier. 
England then got on with the game with a throw in taken by the right back in this near side to the centre midfielder who was playing somewhat of a holding midfielder role now that there were three players in the midfield. 
England had the possession in the centre circle of the field. A long diagonal ball followed the passage of play. 
It was aimed at towards the left winger by the young central midfielder who had just come on to the pitch replacing the centre forward. The left winger managed to get to the ball quite easily but he had the Brazilian right back right next to him who was tracking back. The Englishman managed to outfox the Brazilian thanks to his dancing quick feet. He hit an excellent cross, quite high. It was an inviting cross. 
The English captain and one of the centre backs of Brazil jostled in the air for the ball and he managed to get the ball out for a corner to England. During the jostle, the English forward got a knock in the head. However, he managed to get up and get on with the game. He protested to the referee regarding the challenge but the referee shook his head and told him to get on with the game; you could almost understand his frustration when the referee said so. One of the young lads centring the midfield rushed to this near side in order to take the free kick.  
The centre defenders of England came forward into Brazil’s penalty area hoping to receive a delivery and head the ball into the net to give England the lead. The Englishman on took the corner short to one of his companions and then received it back without any sort of delay. 
He curled the ball outwards with his left foot; there were one or two English lads jumping to head the ball but a Brazilian was the first  to get to the ball and he managed to head the ball out for another corner to England. 
The manager was nowhere to be seen on the touchline, he must have been the dugout, I assumed. The corner was hoisted high this time around; it was an excellent corner curling away from the goal, taken by the same player with his magical left foot. 
We were all up on our feet as the ball was headed by one of the English centre-backs. He managed to get a on top of the opponent and head the ball but it went directly to the keeper who managed to catch it. It came right to his chest and he managed to hold on to it with quite some ease. Then, he took no time in setting off Brazil on attack with a long kick and it managed to get to one of his counterparts midway through the English half who then quickly played it to the right side for the right sided midfielder to chase. 
It was a three on three situation, Brazil had two players just outside the penalty area while the other one had the ball and was out wide on the right flank while the other English players were back-peddling. 
The man who had the ball approached the penalty area got inside of the defender and shot the ball with all the power.
 It was hit fiercely with quite some venom and looked like it would trouble the keeper, it was intended towards the top left hand corner but the keeper somehow managed to get his gloves on the ball and it went just above the net out for a corner to Brazil. It was after quite a while that we had seen a significant attack from Brazil. 
Though the shot was extraordinary, the other two players who were just inside the penalty box as the ball was it were shouting at the player telling that they were unmarked and had an easier chance to score. The player apologized to his teammates and went towards the corner flag in order to take the corner and Brazil got all their men in and around the penalty area for the corner. It was hurled curling towards the goal. Everyone in the penalty area tried to get on top of each other in the quest to head the ball.
 A player from the host country itself managed to get on top of one of the English lads and directed the ball towards the goal with some power but it went above the net out for a goal kick to England. Had the header been accurate, it would have certainly troubled the keeper considering the fact that he was wrong footed.
 It was a tough chance but it would go down as a chance to say the least and it should have been taken, after all who knows if such chance would come again or not in the game. The goal kick was taken rather quickly and hastily by the English keeper but somehow it managed to find its way through to the English captain right in the centre circle who again passed it back to his midfield as no player was making a run ahead of him on either flank. 
It was played back to him once again but this time around he tried to take on the Brazil defence on his own, he was surrounded by three players in yellow; he had nowhere to go. They had captured him in their trap and managed to dispossess him easily. As a matter of fact, it would have been shameful had three players not been able to rob the sole player off the ball.Brazil launched a quick counter attack soon after that. They were passing the ball nicely in the midfield and the move looked promising. They were searching for that penetrating killer pass to tilt the game in their favour. Also, the English defence showed no real urgency to get the ball back or to pressurize the opposition. 
The home side were finding enough space to play and were keeping possession with no real threat from the England. The Brazilians were slowly getting a grip of the game, the ball travelled from left to right then again from right to left and surprisingly I could see no real efforts from England which was quite disappointing. 
To count Brazil out of the game even though they were down to ten men would be an amateur mistake and I think England’s manager shared my feelings because he was out in the touchline, hands on his hips and was shouting at his players calling for urgency and determination. 
The ball was still with the hosts, playing short passes to one another, you could almost see another goal on the way. A beautiful through ball was played towards the striker making a run from the right side of the penalty box into the middle from ten yards outside the penalty area. 
It was an excellent pass beating two English defenders; the Brazilian was through on goal, only the keeper between him and the goal. The Englishman tried to make himself as big as he could, but the Brazilian placed the ball low into the corner and the keeper could do nothing but watch. And a splendid goal!! The English players were protesting for an offside with the official on this near side and the referee himself, but the referee pointed towards the centre circle. The Brazilians led for the second time in the match!!!
Just as the goal went in, the whole stadium was up on its feet, cheering and celebrating as if they had won the world war. The English corner of the stadium was devastated obviously, grimed faces everywhere I see around me. 
The English manager had his hands in his heads and it was astonishing how he managed to suppress his anger at that particular point. To the contrast, the Brazilian camp was bursting with delight. The lad who scored the goal nearly ran above to the stands, he was doing his typical dance removing his shirt. Even the goalkeeper got involved in the celebrations with everyone on the bench joining too. 
The English players on the other hand, had their heads down. The frustration and disappointment in the English fans’ faces could be seen quite easily. Looking on the brighter side, the game still had a lot of time to go for an equalizer. Brazil with ten men had managed to lead England in the world cup final, here at Rio, in this beautiful night. 
There had been twists and turns in this match, and what our dropped heads wanted was another twist in the tail, an equalizer from somewhere, somehow, no matter how scrappy the goal would be, we just wanted one goal desperately.This world cup meant everything to the English fans around the world considering the fact that this was the first time in ages that England had been to a world cup final. The trophy never had been this near since 1966, talking from an English perspective. 
Now it looked at distance; again seemed like we would have to crave for another four years in quest taking the trophy to the motherland of football. The Brazilian fans on the other hand, were still celebrating; each player had a big smile on their face as well.
 However, they had managed to get over their celebrations unlike the fans in yellow in every corner of the field hugging and congratulating each other. Anyone would say it was like they won a national war not a football match although you could argue the match too was a war of a kind. 
The ball was finally placed on the centre circle in order to resume the game. The English manager called the captain towards him and provided him with some instructions which he then forwarded to his players on the pitch. In those conditions,
 I would have loved to see England go out for an all out attack; push Brazil on the back foot and find an equalizing goal. Not only me, but every English fan would have been hoping for the same thing at that time. The ball was in its place and we were all set for a cracking last twenty minutes of play. The two English players stood over the ball in order to resume the play. The game resumed with a kick from the English captain himself urging his players to get forward and give their hundred percent. 
The ball was in the midfield with the three lads each playing their first world cups on the ball. They were playing it to one another and seemed to have a great understanding between themselves. 
They were keeping the ball quite well until one Brazilian lad came charging forward and took the legs away of the English lad wearing the number eight jersey though he managed to get the ball away. 
Every eyes on the referee but he pointed towards the ball signalling the players to get on with the game saying that it was a legitimate tackle which obviously infuriated the English manager on the touchline and the players on the field as well.
 The Brazilian whereas continued his run, the English defenders were getting back while Brazil had two other men inside the English half. The player tried to thread the ball to his companion bisecting two English defenders but the English defender was the first to get to the ball and managed to clear the ball out away only for a throw in to Brazil. It was taken quickly to the same player who had run with the ball earlier by the Brazilian left back. He was on the left hand side approaching the English penalty area, but he was not able to find a way through the rigid English defence this time around. So, he decided to give it back to the midfield. The Brazilians looked threatening and one more goal to add to their lead would just kill the game. 
What we wanted Brazil to do from an English perspective was to sit back and defend their one goal lead, but quite oppositely they were still attacking trying to double the lead. Quite honestly, I would have to say that the match must have been the most competitive and the most exciting of all the world cup games played till date and it was a privilege to be able to witness a game in front of my own eyes.
 For me, no matter which side won (though I desperately wanted England to; it was a great occasion, to have been able to witness such a contest.  Once again, focusing the matters on the pitch, Brazil still had the ball and they were playing passes right in front of the English half. 
But the passage of play ended as a pass was intercepted by the English player centring the defence; he played the ball out of the defence and opened an excellent opportunity for a counter attack that possibly would lead to a goal. He was in the centre circle searching for a pass; there was a player out on the left calling for the ball.
 Astonishingly, he did not pass the ball, instead he continued his run. It was great to see an end to end game in the world cup final, let alone any other game. It was a three on two situation on the pitch, two English players were in Brazil’s half, one of them being the player with the ball himself. 
He was running as fast as he could; he managed to get past a player who had come lunging forward with a one legged challenge. He had two more players to beat; he managed to get past one with some tussling; then he played it to his teammate on this near side left.
 It was a very good counter attacking move and all the credit went to the centre defender for carrying the ball out of the defence on his own. All that was lacking was an end product, an excellent finish to sum up the amazing move.
 The player with the ball ran towards the by-line, and then shifted the ball onto his right foot, the Brazilian right back was with him but he could do nothing as the player played a high cross to the English centre half who was in the Brazilian penalty box. He got above an opponent in order to head the ball into the net. But, the cross proved to be too high for him. 
There was no denial in the fact that it was an excellent cross, curling towards the net but sadly it went out for a goal kick to Brazil. 
It was a warning sign for Brazil from England saying that the match was not over and they still had a lot to do before the game ended. The English were not giving up without a fight and a strong fight to say the least. The goal kick was taken with quite a bit of delay by the keeper and you could understand the delay. 
In all honesty, it frustrated not only me but all the English fans around me. The goal kick was finally taken after what seemed like ages and it reached right between the English goal and the half way line where two players from respective teams were battling it out for the ball, however, the Englishman managed to come out on top. 
The game was flowing from end to end, so it was obviously great to watch from a neutral perspective, normally, u can’t say that with world cup finals of course. 
Usually, they were dull and boring, teams being protective but this game had managed to live up to expectations and it was great to see. The ball was with England, going for that crucial equalizer and it almost felt like the time was decreasing in twice the ratio. 
I glanced at the clock at it was the seventy fifth minute already which obviously astonished me to say the least. We did not have much time remaining and the manager knew that as well. He was shouting at the players from the touchline and he looked absolutely furious at his players, for what reason, I did not seem to know. England currently had the possession, talking about matters on the pitch; the captain had the ball just outside the penalty area.
 He went for a shot, it was more of a lob, but I could not understand what he was doing there. 
The keeper was never off his line and the shot was very weak and the keeper caught it with ease. After he caught the ball, without a further ado, he threw the ball to the Brazilian right back who ran with the ball; after he reached the half way line he gave it to one of the midfielders making a run. 
He played a lovely one-two with the right back and surged forward with the ball. All the time I noticed, he did not have his eyes on the ball and that was a very had skill to perfect, playing without your eyes on the ball. He was moving forward, then he played an excellent lobbed through ball to his companion making a run, he was right through on goal. 
It was a perfect run by the forward, the English defenders were caught between two tactics, whether to go with the player or play offside. Meanwhile, the Brazilian had his sight on the back of the net, only the keeper standing in the way. 
He raised his boots and shot the ball with insane power and it kissed the top of the net. The keeper again could do nothing and as much as I hated to say it Brazil lead the game and it was now almost impossible for England to get back in the game. 
I had my heads down, I was not noticing on the game till I heard a loud cheer from my side of the stadium and as I lifted my head, I noticed the fourth official’s flag raised. That was the biggest relief I could remember I had. My joy was off limits, I literally started jumping. 
Players of Brazil were surrounding the fourth official complaining regarding the decision but there were no amendments in the decision and the referee pointed for a free kick gesturing the Brazilian players to back off.
  It was an immense relief, I must say, not only to people there at the stadium but in England as well. Though England were down by one goal, there still was a glimmer of hope somewhere that someone from somewhere would get a goal back and hopefully that would be enough to take the game to extra time or even penalties and win it from there possibly.
The free kick was taken by the English keeper with immense power, it went high and there were two players just inside Brazil’s half ready to tussle for the ball.The ball rolled out for a throw in to England. It came off the opposition player who got on top of the English youngster in order to head the ball. But, as he failed to time his header properly,
 it went out for the throw in which was taken quickly to the midfield by the English full back. Time was running out for us and was not in our favour. So, ‘The Three Lions’ needed to up their ante and quickly find that equalizing goal to give England that slim chance of still wining the contest.
The passing speed had certainly increased. It was played to the right winger who ran with the ball on the right flank. The youngster had energy, agility and stamina, the perfect combination required to beat any defender in the world. 
So, it was no surprise that he managed to get past the left back like he wasn’t even there. By the time he reached the by-line, he was in an excellent position to cross the ball. 
He hit a low cross but quite disappointingly it hit a Brazilian defender and the ball went out for a corner to ‘The Three Lions’ in their quest of an inevitable equalizer. The centre backs came forward as always for the corner while the centre midfielder was running towards the corner flag in order to take the corner. 
The referee saw some pushing and shoving again in the penalty area and called the players involved forward.
He told something to both the men then told them to restore their respective positions which they did. The player on the far side was ready to take the corner. Just as the referee’s whistle blew, he hit a low cross intender towards his teammate on the near post who managed to get to the ball and directed it towards the goal, the Brazilians just watched as there was no one marking him, but the ball went side netting. It was certainly a relief to the Brazilians as the ball went out for a goal kick.  
Again, the keeper of the hosts showed no real urgency to take the kick and you could understand the reason, the same old formula of time wasting. This time however, the referee went towards him, took out a card and showed him a yellow. And you could hear boos intended at the referee from behind the keeper by the Brazilian fans. The long-awaited goal kick was duly taken .
I looked here and there, still grumpy faces all around me, sullen moods everywhere. The time similarly, wasn’t in our favour either; it was the seventy ninth minute already. And no further substituted were allowed, so we had to work with the players we had on the pitch. And it’s not that they were not giving their hundred percent, they needed a spark from somewhere to motivate them.The English midfield had the possession of the ball with the young lads ‘nurturing’ the ball. England were slowly going forward in an attempt to test Brazil’s defence once again, this time the move looked more composed and promising.
 They were keeping the passing going with quick one-twos.  It was certainly great to watch for the eye but what was desperately required was an end product.  The possession was with one of the English lad half way through the Brazilian half who had his eyes all over the field trying to find a perfect pass. 
The captain dropped onto the midfield and screamed for a the ball, but the Englishman opted to go for a diagonal ball out on the far right hand side to the teenager who had managed to win the penalty for England. So, obviously the English fans were hoping for a similar kind of thing on that occasion as well. The pass was just perfect, right at his feet. 
The youngster controlled the ball with ease; he held it facing the Brazilian left back. It appeared that he’d hit a cross or try to beat the defender and go on his own. 
Seemed like one of the two was inevitable but astonishingly he opted to give it back to the right back who again passed it to a centre midfielder. The midfielder in the game had tried to bring an air of composure to midfield but it was difficult against opponents who were harrying and closing down in the manner he had done so well in his club career.
 His usual crisp passing had deserted him early on in the game but he knuckled down and worked to force himself into the match. Getting forward to good effect, he sent a deflected shot wide and should've done better when working a pass onto his left foot and firing wide. When it mattered most, though, he had shown perfect touch touches in the midfield. 
It was a corner to England which was to be taken by the centre midfielder this time around too. The corner was taken short to the right back by the kick taker; then it was played onto the English captain who was lingering just outside the penalty area. 
He oozed class and provided the guile and vision that was lacking at times on an awkward afternoon for the Three Lions. He made everything look so easy and he was also appreciative of what is happening around him. And the two goals by him were keeping hopes alive for The Three Lions.  Now, all that was required was a vital equalizer in these closing moments of the game. I could not help but look at the clock literally every ten seconds. As the time moved on, my nervousness also increased. I can’t even describe the rate at which my heart was beating.
He had the ball right underneath his feet but he could not find enough space to line up a shot; the penalty box was filled with players from both the teams. He however managed to get his shot away and it was no surprise to see the shot deflected and go out for another corner kick to England.
 The constant pressure gave a huge rise to the spirits of the English fans. After seeing England playing their hearts out in these dying minutes of the game, it was no surprise to see the English supporters getting behind the team. Everyone was on their feet urging each player to get forward. The manager too shared the sentiments of the fans. 
He was quite animated in the touchline, screaming like he never had. The players also seemed nervous but there was no denial in the fact that this game was going to have a hell of an end. The midfielder again rushed to this near side in order to take the corner. The centre backs of England were already in the penalty box so obviously they did not have to travel the whole pitch for the corner. 
The corner was hoisted high and unlike the other time, was not taken short. There were players tussling and fighting to get to the ball. One tried to get on top of the other while the other tried to do the same. It was more like war rather than a football match and the referee undoubtedly had his work cut out in these dying moments. 
Luckily for Brazil, one of the centre backs got on the end of the corner and managed to head it away quite clearly and there was a perfect platform for Brazil to launch a counter attack. 
The clearance reached a midfielder wearing yellow. Some of the Brazilian's early passing was sublime, and he tackled well too, a rare quality for a Brazilian midfielder. Brazilian midfielders are considered to be more of “dribblers” than “tacklers”. On the other hand, like so many of his team-mates, his impact dipped dramatically in the second half. Still one of Brazil's best, though. 
The Brazilian lad certainly got stuck in early on and made some important interceptions and tackles. Retained possession well and allowed his team mates the freedom to join Brazil's forward forays for most of the times in the first half.
Similarly, the move looked promising as well. Brazil had fair share of players in the English half and they certainly outnumbered the English lads. So, undoubtedly there was danger looming large for England. The midfielder then played it onto the right hand side. It was a beautiful ball played towards the player on the right hand side. The Brazilian on the right hand side chased the ball and managed to just keep it in play before it went out for a throw in. The threat of the counter attack had not been eliminated nonetheless.  The Brazilian then tried to play the ball into the midfielder once again who was in a great position with plenty of space ahead of him. But the pass was amazingly intercepted by the English centre half, and a small cheer followed from our side of the stadium. You could see all the lads literally giving what they have got. It certainly meant a lot to them and it was clear from their efforts to win the game. God knew if we’d ever see that Cup that nearly again. 
It was unquestionably a moment of a lifetime for the players in the field but they did not have time to think about that and they should not be thinking about that as well. The interception allowed England a perfect opportunity for another phase of attack with their swift wingers on either flanks. The teenager who had been substituted in the second half almost had international football duck to water. He was just flawless in the game so far, to say the least. No one would say that it was a player playing his first game in the world cup which incidentally happened to be the Final itself. I bet it came as a surprise to the player himself as well when he was told to tie his boots and come onto the field. 
But, now it looked like he had playing in that position all his life. And the right wing position was not his natural position as well. My words could not sup up the talent of the player. As they say, some things are only seen and not described and I certainly knew then what it meant. The boy still had the ball and he was keeping it quite well. At times, seemed as if no one could dispossess him. He was halfway through the Brazilian half as he laid the ball onto his teammate who without any sort of delay, penetrated the ball towards his captain making a run right in front of him. 
The pass bisected the two Brazilian defenders and similarly, the run made by the Englishman was superbly timed. The Brazilians however argued that there might have been a hint of offside by no flag was raised by the fourth official on the far side. 
The English forward continued his run, his first touch was excellent. He was just outside the penalty area, dead central and only the keeper in his way. The Brazilian defenders were almost ten five to ten yards behind the English captain. The keeper came forward and tried to make himself big. The English captain however was unfazed by the keeper’s actions and he had a hard go at the ball. He put all his efforts on that shot. 
The keeper kept on looking at the ball as the ball went past him. All of the people in the stadium were up on their feet as the ball travelled towards the goal. Nervousness, anxiety, fear, joy, every emotions were carried in that shot. The shot was headed towards the top corner and make no mistake; it was hit with immense power. 
It hit the bar!!! What heartbreak for the English fans!!! But apparently I spoke too early because the ball went inside the net after the deflection on the bar and then it came out and was gathered by the keeper. 
Our side of the stadium erupted in joy as the English captain was approaching the corner flag in order to celebrate with his teammates. But, to my and every single English fans’ and players’ rage and disappointment, the referee did not award the goal. The manager was furious along with the few thousand English fans. It had certainly crossed the goal-line but the referee did not think so.
 I could see it right in front of my eyes that it had crossed the line. Another controversy, the last thing we need at that particular point of time. All the English players surrounded the referee and went literally jumping towards the linesman (who apparently must have been blind not to see that goal). 
But the referee shook his head and instead showed the English captain a yellow card for protesting. I was certainly amazed to see how composed he was and how he controlled himself from kicking the referee himself. Everyone supporting England or related to England was obviously devastated and angry at such a decision in a game of such importance. I really had no words to say. Everyone near me was obviously swearing at the referee but it was not only the referee’s fault but in fact according to me it was FIFA’s fault ; being that stubborn. 
After all there have been issues regarding the goal line technology and we must have learned some lesson from the previous world cup. On the field, football is just the way it was a hundred years ago, literally nothing had changed, only Money was the focal point in the game nowadays and what ruled football was money and only money. 
As a football fan, it felt obviously terrible to say that but it was the truth. And to put the referee under such pressure is no fair. When half the world is watching the game, the referee is obviously bound to be under immense pressure and only to blame him for that decision would not be justice.
 Even when half the world is watching the game, it’s a shame that the game is not fair. And I would not be surprised to see the same happening four years later in Russia and still the same issues were being discussed after such incident even after all this has happened. But, one’s got to move on and that is certainly necessary if we were to win the game. The time however showed no real mercy, it was already the eighty seventh minute on the clock.
We deserved a draw at least, the lads had played their hearts out and given all they can. But, its football after all, no one knows what is going to happen and you certainly would not want to make the mistake of killing off the game in your head before the final whistle. 
The focus was shifted on the game as the keeper resumed the game with a long hard kick at the ball. Whatever that happened was past us, no matter how unfair it was. We had to move on with the game and find that equalizer which we already had netted in but due to a bad decision the scoreboard suggested otherwise.
The Englishmen regained the possession once again and were linking up quite well with one another. The pressure was being implied heavily on ten men Brazil. 
The pass however was cut out just as the English were about to enter the Brazilian eighteen yard box. The brake was on for Brazil but seemed like they were resting on their laurels and sitting back. They did not go for the counter attack instead they just sat back and rotated the possession. 
The ball was played from back to front and from back to front while the English players kept on running around the ball as the Brazilians had the ball just inside their half and were keeping it quite well without giving the ball away. It was obvious that the English players had to run a lot in order to get the ball and had their work cut out in these closing moments of the game with them trailing three-two.
The Brazilian lads still had the ball under control as the ball crossed the half way line and still the English players could do nothing and obviously you could see their frustration.Out of the blue, the young English midfielder slid in with a tackle, it looked like a fine tackle to me. But, to my amazement the referee awarded it as a free kick to Brazil just inside the English half. Brazil took as much time as they could for the freekick but ultimately it was taken short towards the right hand side of the field. 
They kept possession of the ball and showed no signs of any urgency after all, they did not have to as well. On the contrary, the Englishmen were running full lengths of the park chasing for the ball. I could not distinguish whether my heartbeat was running faster or the clock because the time seemed to be moving pretty fast. 
An array of misplaced passes (begun by a misplaced pass from the Brazilian forward) followed the sublime exchange of passes and to the delight of the English fans, the English captain hit a lovely diagonal ball with his grey boots ahead of the English winger on the left hand side and a perfect opportunity for a counter attack opener up for the three lions who were in desperate need of a goal in order to keep their world cup hopes alive. 
The English lad on the left was being tracked down by the Brazilian right back but the winger seemed to have double the pace of the Brazilian. It was no big deal for him to beat the right back in pace. He was just near the byline, the opponent back peddling and so were the centre halves of Brazil. The ball was cut back into the penalty box by the winger but to no avail as none of the English players were in the position to slot home the equalizer which perhaps would have been enough to make half the country (England) go mad in joy.   
I took a glance at the clock, it was the ninetieth minute of the game, less than a minute to go, world cup final, England versus the home team, Brazil, England in desperate need of a goal. When I look back at the moment, that must have been the greatest memory of my life, cheering for my team in the world cup final. But at that particular moment, I did not have time to think these things, all I was focused on was the game hoping that England would find a goal somehow. 
I really feel for those people who say football is” just a game”, pity they don’t know the moment feels like, it’s almost unexplainable. The passion, the joy, the feeling it gives, no other thing in this world can. 
On the field, the English were pushing the ten men Brazil side on the backfoot as each and every player with the exception of the keeper, surged forward in order to find that all important goal on which the whole nation would erupt. The manager on the touchline had his hands on his hips, he was not shouting at the players like he was doing earlier. All he could do, like all of the English fans in the world were to cross his fingers and hope for the best in these final moments of the game as England passed the ball from left to right and then again from right and left without any end product. 
The fourth official raised his board on this near side of the field signalling for three additional minutes at the end of the game. Some eye brows were certainly raised at that but I think it was the right decision.We were into the first minute of the added three and ball still with the English. All the players in the field (except the English keeper) were in the Brazilian half of the field. 
The centre midfielder found a penetrating pass, an excellent one to open up the goal for the Englishman on the right who had made an amazing run towards the goal. It was a perfect through ball, leaving the Brazilian defenders only to complain for an offside decision which was to no avail as the assistant referee did not raise his flag. The young winger was one on one with the keeper with the Brazilian defenders only raising their hands and not tracking back. The keeper came forward in order to try and stop the goal. 
Without any further delay, the youngster who must have been in immense pressure, playing only his fifth international game, with only the keeper between him and the goal; shot for the goal with the outside of his boot towards the top corner of the left hand side of the goal keeper who had come forward to halt the run. It was a good strike but the keeper was in the way, an amazing save from the keeper stopped the youngster from scoring his first international goal, that too in the world cup final. What a feat that would have been! The ball went out for a corner to England after the keeper punched the ball away with his fist.
The English manager then signalled the goal keeper to go upfront for the corner. The centre midfielder on the other hand, rushed onto the far side in order to take that vital corner kick which could still keep England in the hunt for the long-awaited glory.The young man was ready to take the corner, with almost all of the English players inside the penalty box. Plenty of pushing and shoving was going on inside the penalty box but the referee showed no real interest in anything that was happening and did not intervene.
The corner was taken short by the Englishman towards his companion who drilled the ball in with some venom. It was a hard hit low cross, more like a shot from the English lad in a hope that someone would tap it home. However, the English captain was trying to get on the end of it but he was pushed from the back by a Brazilian centre back and all of the English camp was jumping and shouting animatedly for a penalty and so were the English players on the field. And the assistant referee also put his flag across his chest signalling for a penalty kick. But, the referee was not so sure about it and went to the far side in order to consult the decision with his assistant, the players from both the teams on the other hand, were arguing their cases circling the referees. To my dismay, the referee did not point his hand towards the spot and it was not given as a penalty. The whole stadium cheered upon the fact while a round of boos followed from the English side of the field. 
There could have been arguments from both the sides regarding the penalty decision because when looked at the replay of the incident, it looked a fifty fifty. Given as a penalty sometimes, sometimes not and you’ve got to live with it. There was a slight nudge from behind, and the player went down. As an English fan, I would obviously say that should have been given as a penalty, but from a neutral perspective, the decision looked fair enough.   The game had already resumed and it was the last minute of the stoppage time as well, only seconds left on the clock for the men in white and blue shorts to keep their dreams alive. It would be a case of ‘so near, yet so far’ if they failed to win the trophy and another four year wait would start and it certainly looked inevitable at that moment of time. All eyes were on the ball as brazil had it now looking to keep the possession and not give England any chance to break and find that equalizer. However, just as the Brazilian midfielders were trying to hold the ball, the English captain; the talisman made a superb tackle in order to create a final opportunity in these moments for an equalizer. The referee glanced at his watch as their were only seconds left in the clock. 
The English captain broke away with the ball with only one of his teammates in the opposition half. He managed to beat two Brazilians with couple of quick stopovers. All the English supporters looking anxiously hoping more than anything else in the world for the move to end as a goal. Then a beautiful one two followed the surging run, The English captain approached the penalty area with the referee literally about to blow his whistle. The English captain who had already managed to get a brace in this game was the only hope now for England; his surging run was about to come to an end as he reached near the goal, he had none of the English players anywhere near him in a proper place to pass. All was down to him to continue the roar of the three lions in that wonderful night in South America. 
Was it going to end with tears or in insane joy? We were only seconds away from knowing. But no matter what the result would be, I was proud of the players who gave everything they could and played their heart and soul out. The referee again looked as his watch, perhaps for the final time in the game and was ready to blow his whistle. On the other hand, the English captain carrying the hopes and aspirations of his nation and countrymen created space for a final shot in the game by beating a defender in yellow. It was a powerful blow, a fierce shot carrying joy or sorrow for his countrymen, time would tell. The keeper set his eyes on the ball as the striker unleashed his shot with the perfect placement and whole world’s eyes were about to pop out as the ball travelled in the air, destined for the goal.
